Added initial documentation for PowerToys New+ (#5065)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-uwp: hub/powertoys/newplus.md

---
title: PowerToys New+ for Windows
description: A tool that enables you to create files and folders from an easily personalized set of templates, directly from the File Explorer context menu.
ms.date: 07/13/2024
ms.topic: article
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, New+, New, NewPlus, Win]
---

# New+

> **PowerToys New+** enables you to create files and folders from an easily personalized set of templates, directly from the File Explorer context menu.

Reviewer: I try to avoid saying something is "easy" or "simple" in the docs in case somebody has difficulty getting something configured.
```suggestion
**PowerToys New+** enables you to create files and folders from a personalized set of templates, directly from the File Explorer context menu.
```

## Getting started

### How to enable New+

To start using New+, enable New+ in the PowerToys settings.

### How to create a new object using New+

> To create a new item within a folder, right-click on the background of the folder to bring up the context menu. From there, click on the “New+” option and then select the template you were looking for.

Reviewer: In other PowerToys docs, we just say "right-click on the folder" or "right-click on the file". See the Registry Preview docs (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/powertoys/registry-preview) for an example.
```suggestion
To create a new item within a folder, right-click on the folder to bring up the context menu. From there, click on the “New+” option and then select the template you were looking for.
```

### How to add or customize a new template to New+

> To create a new template, start by right-clicking the background of a folder. This will open a context menu where you can select the ‘New+’ option. From there, choose ‘Open templates’ to access the “Templates” folder. In this folder, you have the freedom to add, edit, or rename objects as per your needs. It’s important to note that the objects you add here will be displayed on the ‘New+’ menu in a sorted order, with folders always appearing first. This makes it easy for you to find and select your templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new template, start by right-clicking on the folder. This will open a context menu where you can select the ‘New+’ option. From there, choose ‘Open templates’ to access the “Templates” folder. In this folder, you have the freedom to add, edit, or rename objects as per your needs. It’s important to note that the objects you add here will be displayed on the ‘New+’ menu in a sorted order, with folders always appearing first. This provides the ability to find and select your templates.
```

## Settings

### <a name="template_location"></a>Templates

> **Templates location**

Reviewer: If these sub-headings are needed, let's use headings instead of bold text.
```suggestion
#### Templates location

```

After the enablement toggle, the New+ Templates location setting is likely the most interesting one. By default, the template location is in your local app data folder, specifically at %localappdata%\Microsoft\PowerToys\NewPlus\Templates. However, these templates will not roam with you across devices. If you want a common set of templates across devices, a popular option is to change the template location to a folder that is synced with a cloud drive, such as OneDrive. This way, you can access your templates from any device.

### Display options

> **Hide template filename extensions**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Hide template filename extensions

```

The option enables you to toggle the display of filename extensions. When this option is toggled off, a file named “filename.ext” will be displayed with its extension, appearing as “filename.ext”. However, when this option is toggled on (the default), the template will be displayed without its extension, appearing simply as “filename”.

> **Hide template filename starting digits, spaces and dots**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Hide template filename starting digits, spaces and dots

```
